
Reasons
- Remove or alter a bad commit
- Consolidate commit sequence into a more useful form

Only alter commits of a branch if no one has a copy of that branch


## Revert

`git revert <COMMIT>` applies the inverse change of the commit and adds the changes as a new commit


## Amend

`git commit --amend` will commit the changes to the HEAD commit


## Reset

`git reset <OPTION> <COMMIT>` moves the HEAD and branch to the specified commit while adjusting the index and working directory to allow for various editing functionalities.

Options
- `--soft`
- `--mixed` as default
- `--hard`

Soft leaves the index and working directory unchanged which allows you to create a single new commit to represent the difference between the specified commit and the current state.

Mixed alters the index to match the commit but leaves the working directory unchanged allowing you to add to the index and control how you want to commit to get back to the current state.

Hard option alters the index and working directory to match the specified commit which makes it essentially a delete.


## Cherry Pick

`git cherry-pick <COMMIT>` merges a single change from one branch into another.

Useful for introducing a specific feature.

Cherry pick a range of commits as well with `<C1>..<C2>`


## Rebase

Used to move commits from one place to another.

Often used as a merge

`git rebase <BRANCH_1/COMMIT> <BRANCH_2>`

Steps:
1. Find all commits in the range `<BRANCH_2>..<BRANCH_1/COMMIT>`
2. Convert these commits into a linear sequence
3. Start from the first commit in the sequence and merge each commit onto `<BRANCH_1/COMMIT>`
4. `<BRANCH_2>` reference is also copied over

Use `--onto` command to copy onto a different commit.

Try to preserve the commit structure as commits are copied over using `--rebase-merges` option.

Merge conflicts can happen to each commit being copied over. 
- After resolving a conflict continue the rebase with `git rebase --continue`
- Skip a conflicted commit with `git rebase --skip`
- Abort rebase with `git rebase --abort`

`-i` option allows you to edit the commit sequence before copying the commits over
- delete
- combine

