
Simple Storage Service

Object storage system

**Bucket**
- Container for objects
- Globally unique name
- Regionally scoped

**Object**
- Files within buckets
- Object **key** consists of a **name** and a **prefix**
- Contains **metadata**
- Contains **Version ID**
- Can have tags

Enable **versioning** to track versions of an object

**Requestor pays feature** allows AWS to charge account that downloads an object.

S3 actions can create **events** which trigger other actions within AWS.

Create **pre-signed URLs** for temporary access


## Security

Force MFA in order to delete or disable versioning.

Enable audit logging for buckets

Enable **vault lock policy** to allow only one write for an object, cannot be overridden.

### Access Control
- Bucket policy
- Bucket ACL
- Object ACL
- Block public access at bucket or account level

#### Encryption

Server side encryption is determined on upload by request headers. S3 will encrypt the objects for you.
- S3
	- default
	- S3 uses internal key
- KMS
	- Uses key services of KMS
	- Added control but added cost
- Client
	- Client provides key for encrypting

Client side allows the user to encrypt the object and decypt it themselves.

Force encryption through policies

### Access Points

Used to simplify security management
1. Create an access point
2. Assign a URL
3. Assign a policy
4. Map to any number of  buckets
5. Apply lambda functions to alter objects if necessary on read


## Replication

Enable automatic asynchronous object replication across buckets

Use batch replication for objects that already exist in a bucket


## Storage Classes

Aspects of how objects are stored and retrieved

- Standard
- Infrequent Access
	- One zone or multiple zones
	- Cheaper storage with more expensive retrieval
- Glacier Storage
	- Extra low cost storage and low expensive retrieval
	- Instance, Flexible, or Deep Archive modes
- Intelligent Tiering
	- Automatically moves objects between tiers based on usage

#### Lifecycle Rules

Automatically manage objects

- Transition actions - define how objects move between storage classes
- Expiration actions - define how objects are automatically deleted


## Performance

Read and write performance is limited at the object prefix. Increase the number of prefixes to increase the total performance limit.

**Multi-part upload**, uploads objects in parallel for faster speeds

**Byte-range fetches** for parallel downloads

Accelerate transfers by transfering to and from edge-locations allows the data to travel further through the AWS network.

**Server side filtering** for getting the exact objects needed


