
The index is also known as a staging directory.

Used to collect file changes before committing.

The index is the a virtual tree that will be referenced by the commit.

`git status` compares the index tree against the HEAD commit and displays the difference.

File Types
- Tracked - file that is already committed or staged in the index
- Ignored - file ignored by git
- Untracked - all other files

Files are defined by their hash.

`git add` 

Stages a file by hashing file and adding it to the index tree. 

Can reference an entire directory or use matching characters to add multiple files at once.

`git commit -a`

Automatically stage all unstaged file changes before committing. Untracked files will not be added, only files that are tracked and have been edited.

`git rm`

Removes a file from both the repository and working directory.

`--cached` removes the file from the index but not the working directory.

`git mv`

Move or rename a file within an index.

`git log --follow <FILE>`

View all commits for a file but include file name changes.


#### Gitignore

`.gitignore` file is used to register files that will be ignored by git.

Contains a list of filename patterns
- Blank lines are ignored
- `#` can be used at the beginning of a line to create a comment
- literal filename matches across all directories
- directory name is marked by trailing slash
- Shell glob patterns
- `!` inverts the action

`.gitignore` can be in any directory and cascade from broader to narrower with narrower files able to override with `!` to allow otherwise ignored files.

Cascade precedence (higher to lower)
- Command line
- `.gitignore` in same directory
- `.gitignore` in parent directories, proceeding upward
- `.git/info/exclude`
- `core.excludesFile` variable

Treated as regular files that are tracked in commits.

If the ignored files need to be specific to you only use eith `.git/info/exclude` or `core.excludesFile`
