
**Development Repository** is used for every day development. Contains git objects and working directory.

**Bare Repository** is not actively developed on and used as an intersection between multiple development repositories. Only contains git objects.

Use `--bare` option to create a bare repository.


## Remotes

Remote repositories are configured within a repository.

Remote repositories allow the repository to communicate with another one.

`git remote` can be used for CRUD operations on your remote repositories.

Remotes can be directly manipulated using `git config` commands or manually editing the configuration file.

Branch types
- Remote branches are located in a remote repository
- Remote-tracking branches are associated with a remote branch
- Local-tracking branches are paired with a remote-tracking branch and where active development is made
- Local-nontracking branches or topic branches are not paired with a remote-tracking branch

Namespaces are used to separate the remote and local tracking branches -> `branch_1` vs `origin/branch_1`

Remote repository is defined through a URL

URLs are used to locate and communicate with the remote repository
- Filepath
- Git protocol
- SSH
- HTTP/S


## Refspec

Refspecs are used when interacting with a remote and map branch names between the remote repository to the local repository.

`<SOURCE_BRANCH>:<DESTINATION_BRANCH>`

The source and destination change depending on the operation but are either the local or remote repository.

Default refspecs exist for different commands and are defined within the git config.


## Cloning

`git clone <URL>` creates a new repository based on the repository specified by the URL.

All accessible git objects are copied while repository specific details are not.

Cloning automatically creates a remote repository within the new repository linking the cloned and new repository.

The name of the remote repository is by default `origin` but can be set using `--origin <NAME>`

During cloning a remote-tracking branch is created for each topic branch in the remote repository and linked with a local-tracking branch.


## Operations

`git fetch <REMOTE> <REFSPEC>` retrieves git objects from remote repository

Fetch refspec by default is retrieved from all remote branches and applied to all remote-tracking branches.

`git pull <REMOTE> <REFSPEC>` 
* Performs a fetch
* Performs a merge or rebase from the remote-tracking to local-tracking branch. 

Merge is default but can be configured.

Merge can create new merge commit that needs to be pushed.

Default refspec fetches HEAD of the remote.

`git push <REMOTE> <REFSPEC>` opposite of fetch, transfer git object to the remote repository.

`-f` to overwrite changes in remote repository if necessary

Only a source value implies the same name for both source and destination.

If branch doesn't exist in remote it is created.

`--delete` to delete remote branch


## Tracking Branches

If there are multiple remote-tracking branches that can get mapped to a local-tracking branch you must specify which to use when checking out

`git checkout --track <REMOTE>/<BRANCH>`

Set a local branch to be linked with a remote-tracking branch

`git branch --set-upstream-to <REMOTE>/<BRANCH>`

Local-tracking branches can be either ahead, behind, or both to its remote-tracking branch.

