
Git repositories within a git repository.


## Submodules

A submodule is a reference to a commit within a different repository.

This reference is created through a gitlink which allows a tree object to reference a commit. Usually commits reference trees.

`git submodule add <REPO_URL>`
1. Creates a `.gitmodules` file and adds the repository and path of the new submodule
2. Clones repository into the directory
3. Stages the submodule as a gitlink

`git clone` will only copy in the reference not the entire submodule tree unless `--recurse-submodules` is used.

`git submodule init` will copy settings from `.gitmodules` into `.git/config` allowing you to update the settings if desired without effecting other developers.

`git submodule update` will make sure the submodule is correctly and fully loaded.

Submodule commands use credentials belonging to the super repository.

### Pushing

Objects can be pushed from the submodule into the submodules remote repository and overall be treated as a normal repository.

If the submodule is behind the remote repository it may have checked out a detached head though.

After commiting the super-repository should be committed with the new gitlink representing the submodule.

### Pulling

Pulling will fetch submodule objects but not merge them. From here `git submodule update` will complete the merge.

Or use `git pull --recurse-submodules`.

### Checkout

When checking out a new super repository branch use `--recurse-submodules` to update the gitlinks to reflect that branches submodules.


## Subtrees

A subproject is added as a subdirectory and will include the entire history of commits.

`git subtree add --prefix=<DIR> <REPO_URL>`

Will create a merge request between current history and sub-project.

History of subtree can be squashed into one commit with `--squash`

Pull in new updates from subtree repository with `git subtree pull ...`

Push new commits to subtree repository with `git subtree push ...`
