
## Interactive Hunk Staging

`git add -p <FILE>`

Allows you to interactively choose which changes to stage.

Iterate through all changes and choose to stage them.

Split and edit what parts of the changes to stage.


## git rev-list

Commit query command

- Commit dates - before, after
- File versions


## git fsck

Compares the total set of objects with the set of reachable commits via traversal from refs.

Shows difference so that objects can be recovered.

Objects can be recovered by writing to a new file.

Commits can be recovered by tagging with a branch.


## git filter-repo

External tool for editing entire repository history.

Needs to be installed as an extension first.

Any edit commands automatically remove remote tracking branches to prevent accidental pushes.

`--analyze` generates for repository reports for decision making and validation.

`--path-filter` to delete files and directories by name

`--strip-blobs-bigger-than` to delete files by size

`--replace-text` to replace text within files with a given or default value

`--replace-message` to edit commit messages

Other funcationalities
- edit user and email information
- edit tags
- edit commit parents


## Recover from upstream altered commits

If you've committed locally but the upstream branch as been altered in a way that makes a merge extremely painful.

1. Rename upstream remote tracking branch to a local branch
2. Fetch from upstream to get new current remote tracking branch
3. [[9. Altering Commits|Rebase]] commits from the renamed branch to the new upstream branch
4. Remove renamed branch.


## git whatchanged

See what changed
- over time spans
- between commits

Good to use after fetching data - `git whatchanged ORIG_HEAD..HEAD`


## git clean

Remove untracked files from your working tree.

Does not include ignored files by default.

`-d` includes untracked directories.

`-x` includes ignored files.

`-X` removes only ignored files.

`--dry-run` will show you what would have been removed.


## git grep

Searches for text patterns blobs that are tracked and in the index.


## rerere

Stands for "reuse recorded resolution"

Automates the task of repeatedly solving the same merge conflicts.

Must first enable in configuration.

Then, every merge conflict is recorded including the left side, right side, and resolution.

If the same merge conflict is seen again the same resolution is applied.

The resolution is not automatically committed.

Merge records are only saved locally.


## Migrating

To migrate from one git repository to another simply add a new remote and push to it.

To migrate from a non-git repository to a git repository use a bridge tool to convert from one format to another.


## Large Repositories

Exclude parts of a repository to exclude while [[11. Remote Repositories|cloning]] using the `--filter=...` argument.

Exclude commits from cloned repository with `--depth=<NUMBER>` and/or `--shallow-since=<DATE>`  argument.

Use `git sparse-checkout set <DIR/S>` to checkout a subset of the repository.


## Git LFS

Open source Git extension for tracking large files in your repository.

For example - video files, audio files, datasets.

Configured files are stored in external LFS server instead of locally. LFS will store a pointer locally instead.

Must be installed first.

Configure files to track externally with `git lfs track <FILE_PATTERN/S>`.

This will create and add to a `.gitattributes` file.

Remove tracked file types with `git lfs untrack <FILE_PATTERN/S>`.

### Locking

To prevent merge conflicts lock external files so that they cannot be edited until unlocked.

Set as lockable with `--lockable` flag in track call.

Lock file with `git lfs lock <FILE/S>`.

Unlock file with `git lfs unlock <FILE/S>`.

