
An operation that combines two or more different lines of development.

`git merge <BRANCH>`

Current branch is the target branch and the referenced branch is merged into it.

After a merge, usually a new commit is created pointing to all parents.


## Strategies

- Already up-to-date
	- When all commits from the other branch are already present in target branch
	- No new commits are added
- Fast forward
	- When all target branch commits are present in the other branch
	- Opposite of Already up-to-date
	- Git tacks new commits onto target branch HEAD
- Resolve
	- Operates on two branches
	- Finds common ancestor of the two branches, merge base
	- If there are multiple potential merge bases, one is randomly selected
	- Applies changes from merge branch to branch for both branches
	- Creates a merge commit
- Recursive
	- Operates on two branches
	- If there is more than one potential merge base it will merge all merge bases then use that as the new merge base
	- Once merge base is established it acts the same way as Resolve
- Octopus
	- Uses the recursive merge strategy multiple times to merge any number of branches together
	- Any conflict must be aborted and tried with a two way merge strategy
- Merge-ort
	- New, higher performance, recursive strategy implementation
- Ours
	- Merge in any number of other branches but discard all changes except for the target branches changes
	- Used for creating a commit history link without creating any changes
- Subtree
	- Git will automatically link the incoming branch to a sub-directory of the target branch and apply the merge on the sub-directory
	- Use if a branch contains another branch within a sub-directory

Git will automatically determine a merge strategy
1. Can it use already up-to-date or fast-forward? If so use one of those.
2. If there are multiple branches selected for merging use Octopus
3. Otherwise recursive is the default

Specify merge strategy with `git merge -s <STRATEGY> <BRANCH>`


## Drivers

**Merge drivers** are used for merging each individual file by accepting three file version - base, target, incoming file.

Git automatically links different files with different drivers.

Create custom drivers and custom mappings.

- binary - for merging binary files, which can't use the merge markers
- test - for merging text files
- union -leaves all the lines from both versions of the merged file


## Squash

A squash commit will delete the history of the incoming branch and create a single non-merge commit in place of the merge commit.

Use `git merge --squash`


## Conflict

If both branches have updated the same section of code a conflict will be created.

Git will mark these areas with merge markers (`<<<<<`, `======`, and `>>>>>`) to show the changes made by each branch.

These files will need to be edited and added to the index before a commit can be created.

You cannot create a commit until all conflicted files are resolved by adding a new version of the file to the index.

Normally git automatically creates a merge commit but in the case of a conflict the conflicting areas must be edited and committed manually.

`git status` can be used to show the conflicted files.

Use `git diff --check` to check if any merge markers exist before committing.

Use `git diff` to see the conflicting changes of each branch from the merge base.

`git diff` will show nothing if all changes from one branch are kept and none of the other. In this case `git diff` assumes you chose one branches version instead of merging.

Conflict references
- `MERGE_HEAD` is the commit you're merging in
- `MERGE_MSG` is the merge message used after resolving the conflicts
- Git index contains three versions of each conflicted file, each with a stage number
	- 1: merge base version
	- 2: target branch version
	- 3: merge branch version
	- conflicted version is not in index

Can reference stage numbers in `git diff` command -> `git diff :1:<FILE> :3:<FILE>`

### Aborting

Return to the original conflict state with `git checkout -m`

Abort the merge with `git merge --abort`

Abort the merge after it has finished with `git reset --hard ORIG_HEAD`
